During aortic valvuloplasty a guidewire was broken, and the broken fragment remained in the left ventricle. This left ventricular foreign body was retrieved percutaneously by a snare.
A case of nonvesicular dermatitis herpetiformis with clear-cut perimenstrual exacerbations is described and differentiated from autoimmune progesterone dermatitis.
A surgical head rest is described that gives good wrist support, provides space to place instruments, and allows drainage of irrigation fluid.
In some respects, things are getting worse, not better, for women in science. Positive measures need to be taken for progress towards genuine equality of opportunity.
Falling represents a common and dangerous problem for the elderly. As a result, fall prevention has become a focus of clinical attention. This article examines why older people fall, what factors place persons at risk for falling, and how to prevent falls.
They're slow, they're hard-of-hearing, they don't get better--elderly patients can be a pain in the practice. Here's how to keep them away.
Return-to-work data were prospectively obtained from 155 adult burn patients who were employed before their injuries. Average time from burn to return to work was 63 days, and average time from discharge to return to work was 42 days. Size and depth of burn, occurrence of hand burns, age of the patient, and type of job significantly influenced return to work and return to work time. These data were compared to previous reports from this burn center and other burn centers, and it was concluded that return to work time is becoming shorter. More information must be scientifically gathered in order to determine all factors which influence return to work time. Researchers should direct their attention to those factors that are amenable to intervention from the burn team.
To determine the current incidence and outcome of iatrogenic retinal breaks occurring during pars plana vitrectomy, the authors reviewed 404 consecutive operations done on eyes without preexisting retinal breaks. Thirteen eyes had 14 iatrogenic peripheral retinal breaks. Three other eyes had both peripheral breaks and posterior breaks. Twenty-five eyes had 43 posterior breaks. The incidence of peripheral breaks was 4% and of posterior breaks was 6%. Patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy had a higher incidence of iatrogenic retinal breaks than those with other diagnoses. Peripheral breaks occurred most commonly just posterior to the site of insertion of the vitrectomy probe. Although six eyes required reoperation, 33 of 38 eyes had a successful anatomic outcome.
The finding that patients with neglect make larger errors when bisecting longer lines could be due to failure to disengage attention from a segment of the line on the ipsilesional side, or to a reduced ability to direct attention and/or action contralaterally. The findings are reported from a patient with left-sided neglect who set the midpoint further away from the right end of lines as their length increased, a finding consistent with the latter interpretation. His errors were significantly related to length and lateral extent of lines presented in left hemispace, but only to length of lines presented in right hemispace.
Patients with unilateral spatial neglect fail to report or respond to stimuli contralateral to the lesion which usually involves the right parietal lobe. When asked to mark the centre of a horizontal line, these patients place the mark to the right of the true midpoint. It has been considered that they neglect the left part of the line and bisect the perceived line segment. We investigated the eye-fixation patterns of hemianopic patients with or without unilateral spatial neglect during the bisection of lines, using an eye camera. Hemianopic patients without unilateral spatial neglect saw the whole lines, searching to the endpoint on the hemianopic side, and bisected it correctly. In contrast, left hemianopics with unilateral spatial neglect never searched to the left hemianopic side. Once they fixated a certain point on the right part of the line, they persisted with this point and marked the subjective midpoint there. Taking left homonymous hemianopia into account, the subjective midpoint appeared to be marked, not at the centre of the line segment perceived in the seeing right visual field, but at the leftmost point of it. However, they could appreciate the deviation of the subjective midpoint in the right visual field when forced to fixate the left endpoint of the line. These findings suggest that the left hemisphere has the ability to estimate the midpoint of the line through the right visual field and that visuospatial disorder in the line bisection test is attributable to the pathological change in the right hemisphere. The results are interpreted to mean that left hemianopic patients with unilateral spatial neglect see a totalized image of a line extending equally to either side of the point where they are going to mark the subjective midpoint. We considered that the right hemisphere completes the line, using the visual input relating to the right part of the line perceived by the left hemisphere.
Your patients are growing older--but do they see it that way?
We are convinced that a best-interests approach is the best approach to take in making decisions to treat or not to treat disabled young infants. Such an approach acknowledges that there are some medical conditions that are so severe that efforts to sustain the lives of infants having the conditions cannot be said to be in the best interests of those infants. By paying attention to the variables that compose the best-interests approach, decision makers can arrive at decisions not to sustain life that are more easily justifiable than with any other approach.
A third-generation balloon catheter that accepts a fiberoptic has been developed. The fiberoptic is inserted through the catheter to the center of the balloon when the balloon is in the area of the retinal break. Viewed with the ophthalmoscope light at dim to off, the balloon can be seen glowing through the wall of the eye. The position of the balloon can then be shifted until the glow is precisely under the retinal break.
A chest tube can be used to change a tracheostomy tube just as a Seldinger wire is used to change a central line. A good match for size is important. The flange should be cut off of the chest tube and the inspired oxygen should be increased. Positive pressure ventilation can be performed through the chest tube by the addition of an endotracheal tube adaptor at the cut off end.
Selection of cutoff points for tests to validate smoking cessation should take account of the prevalence of deception. When the prevalence of deception is relatively low, the cutoff points to validate quitting should be relatively high. Many studies have used cutoff points that are too low and may have underestimated cessation rates. We present a method for determining the best cutoff points that takes account of the prevalence of deception.
Differences of opinion exist as to whether visualization of the coronary arterial tree is better with 525-line or 1,023-line video imaging systems. The 1,023-line acquisition has been associated with image degradation; 525-line display, however, has prominent raster lines that may also degrade the image. For evaluation of this issue, identical coronary arterial images were obtained with 525-line acquisition and then displayed with either 525-line or 1,023-line display. The 525-line acquisition with digital upscan 1,023-line display had superior image quality compared with 525-line display. With the use of 525-line acquisition and 1,023-line display, video images were similar to or slightly better than the identical cineangiographic images.
A standardized test for measuring the needle penetration forces has been developed that can be easily replicated in any laboratory. Using this test, conventional cutting edge needles utilized in the test produced lower penetration forces than reverse cutting edge needles. The lower penetration forces encountered by the conventional cutting edge needles imply that the physician should be able to handle these needles with more dexterity and precision than the reverse cutting edge needle.
The amount of energy used to run a mile is nearly the same whether it is run at top speed or at a leisurely pace (although it is used more rapidly at the higher speed). This puzzling independence of energy cost and speed is found generally among running animals, although, on a per gram basis, cost is much higher for smaller animals. Running involves little work against the environment; work is done by muscles and tendons to lift and accelerate the body and limbs. Some of the work is recovered from muscle-tendon springs without metabolic cost and work rate does not parallel metabolic rate with either speed or size. Regardless of the amount of work muscles do, they must be activated and develop force to support the weight of the body. Load-carrying experiments have shown that the cost of supporting an extra newton of load is the same as the weight-specific cost of running. Size differences in cost are proportional to stride frequency at equivalent speeds, suggesting that the time available for developing force is important in determining cost. We report a simple inverse relationship between the rate of energy used for running and the time the foot applies force to the ground during each stride. These results support the hypothesis that it is primarily the cost of supporting the animal's weight and the time course of generating this force that determines the cost of running.
We compared, under laboratory conditions, the resistance to cutting out of the AO dynamic hip screw and the Pugh sliding nail. The mean load at cut out, adjusted for bone strength, was 70% greater for the Pugh sliding nail. The reasons for this difference are discussed.
The purposes of this investigation were 1) to compare the forces produced by the elbow flexor muscles during make tests and break tests and 2) to determine the reliability of each of the test procedures. I used a hand-held dynamometer to perform two make tests and two break tests on 27 young women. The forces produced by the elbow flexor muscles during break tests were significantly larger than (p less than .001), albeit correlated with (r greater than .80), the forces produced during make tests. Each testing procedure was reliable (r = .909 for make tests; r = .922 for break tests). On the basis of reliability, one type of testing cannot be considered clearly superior to the other.
The authors present three cases of women who began to cut themselves superficially after they had been raped. To the authors' knowledge, no such findings have been reported in the current literature on short- and long-term effects of rape.
Patients with neglect erred toward the right when attempting to locate the intercepts of their midsagittal planes with a horizontal line placed in front of them. When control subjects could not see their bodies, they also pointed to the right. While control subjects improved when they were able to see their bodies, neglect subjects did not. When the horizontal line was moved toward the right, both neglect and control subjects increased their rightward pointing errors. However, patients with neglect made greater errors than did controls. When the line was in far left hemispace, controls pointed accurately to their midsagittal planes. The neglect subjects, in contrast, erred toward the left. Our results suggest that patients with neglect from right hemisphere lesions are not only inattentive to their bodies, but are also distracted by extracorporeal stimuli, especially on the right. Our results also suggest that normal subjects have a propensity to orient to or be distracted by stimuli in right hemispace.
The phenomenon of accidental death due to falls at work was studied: 15 cases that occurred during the years 1983-1987, in which a worker died from a job-related fall, are presented in some detail. A discussion follows in which risk factors for these incidents are presented along with suggestions about how to investigate such cases.
Mitotic recombination between his3 heteroalleles on heterologous chromosomes is stimulated by a DNA double chain break delivered in vivo at a site 8.6 kilobase pairs distant from one his3 allele and unlinked to the other. The induced recombination at his3 is accompanied by gap repair at the break site using the uncut homolog as a template. The DNA between the break site and his3 is not deleted in most of the His+ recombinants.
This study was performed in an attempt to determine the total spinal compressive load during assembly line work to find a possible association with the many complaints of back pain. A flexion analyzer was used to register trunk movements, and analysis of postures and lifted weights was done from video recordings. The load on the spine at the L3 level was calculated through a biomechanical model, meant for analysis of static, sagittally symmetric postures and lifting tasks. Maximum lift tests were performed before and after a full work day. The peak load on the L3-L4 level when lifting corresponded to an average 22% of the load at the lift test. The mean load during a work cycle was 818 N. It was concluded that the many complaints of back pain could not be attributed to high peak loads, repetitivity of the lifts, or large load doses. Monotony, stress, and low job satisfaction are more likely factors of greater importance.
A sample of 81 elderly subjects (M age = 76 years) volunteered to take part in a study to determine whether the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) Short Form is an acceptable substitute for the GDS Long Form. Half of the subjects took the GDS Long Form first, and half took the GDS Short Form first. After two weeks, the subjects were given the remaining form. Although the mean scores were lower than in previous correlation studies, the results indicated that the GDS Short Form correlated significantly (r = +.66, p less than .01) with the GDS Long Form, but not highly enough to be considered an appropriate substitute.
Grating contrast sensitivity was measured using different colors and different grating orientations. The contrast sensitivity was highest when measured with green light, a little less when measured with red light, and lowest with blue light. The contrast sensitivity with blue light was relatively low compared with green and red light for high spatial frequencies, and relatively high for low spatial sensitivities. The so-called 'oblique effect' was confirmed in this study, but a difference between horizontal and oblique gratings was only found in spatial frequencies higher than 18 cycles/degree. The present study, carried out on 20 persons, suggests that the inter- and intraindividual components of variance are smallest when measured with green light and vertically oriented gratings.
Excessive pronation is accepted as a good indicator for various running injuries. The least amount of pronation takes place when running barefoot. The latest investigations show that this is connected to a large torsional movement between forefoot and rearfoot which can be influenced by the shoe sole construction. The shoes which are in use among runners in track and field are basically of two types, running shoes (in general torsionally stiff) and spikes (torsionally flexible). The possibly varying effect of these shoes on the shoe/foot motion in running is not known. The purpose of this investigation was therefore to show whether the pronation angle and the torsion angle differ when running barefoot, with spikes, and with running shoes (forefoot touchdown, N = 9 left and right). A film analysis provided the angular movements of the lower leg, rearfoot, and forefoot as well as pronation and torsion in the frontal plane. The results show that at touchdown the torsional movements with both shoe types are quite different from those of running barefoot. With shoes, the torsion angle is reduced back to zero--with running shoes more than with spikes--and the pronation angle is increased beyond the barefoot values (P less than 0.01). In order to reduce the risk of injury, both shoe types should be improved--the running shoes with respect to torsion and the spikes with respect to pronation.
We report a case of a large perirenal hematoma following extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL) that resulted in compromised renal blood flow and function and necessitated open surgical drainage. Caution is advised and close follow-up recommended in patients who have taken aspirin-containing compounds, are elderly, have hypertension, or exhibit a significant drop in hematocrit following ESWL.
The goal of the Resource-Based Relative Value Scale is to measure the resource costs of physicians' services, or, more centrally, the physicians' total work. This article describes the estimation of relative values for physicians' work before and after the performance of a service (preservice and postservice work). For methodological and practical reasons, we could not obtain direct ratings of preservice and postservice work except for a few services. We therefore developed a systematic process to estimate preservice and postservice time and rate of work per unit of time. Then time and work per unit of time were multiplied to estimate work. The major finding of our investigation is that preservice and postservice work make up a substantial portion of total work. The typical percentages of total work accounted for by preservice and postservice work range from 26% and 33% for imaging services and evaluation and management services, respectively, to 46% for invasive services performed in a hospital inpatient setting.
"The CEO doesn't take care of patients; the CEO takes care of the people who take care of patients," says Eire "Chip" Chapman, the president of 869-bed Riverside Methodist Hospitals. This philosophy is endorsed by other top administrators who have made a point to leave their desks to investigate first-hand employee concerns and work situations.
Sections of urinary calculi were prepared and point-by-point analyses along a line-scan were carried out using the techniques of proton-induced X-ray emission (PIXE) and nuclear reaction analysis (NRA). Correlations between several pairs of elements (including trace elements) were noted and it was also clear that the composition of a stone varied markedly at different stages of development.
A new occluder to perform the cover test allows visualization of the covered eye through the occluder and direct observation of heterophorias. The occluder is composed of an aluminium-polyester filter mounted on a support in front of a 2.2-V light bulb.
The location of retinal breaks found on preoperative examination was studied in 68 eyes of 68 patients with recurrent retinal detachment and proliferative vitreoretinopathy. Twelve eyes had 23 open breaks that were known to exist previously, no open break was detected in 18 eyes, and 72 new or previously unidentified breaks were found in 41 eyes. Forty-seven (65.3%) of the 72 breaks were located on previous buckles, and 31 of these were on the posterior slope of the buckle. Twenty-nine (40.2%) of all new or previously unidentified breaks were on the border of a cryopexy-induced chorioretinal scar, and of these, 25 breaks (86%) were on the posterior slope of the buckle. Our results indicate that the retina that borders chorioretinal scars is vulnerable and prone to develop retinal tears secondary to traction from preretinal membranes. The vicinity of cryopexy-induced scars should be closely observed for retinal breaks in cases of recurrent retinal detachment with proliferative vitreoretinopathy.
The rat is widely used in studies of the metabolic and physiological effects of physical exercise. The most commonly used form of exercise is running on treadmills or mechanically driven running wheels. Rats will not voluntarily run significant distances, under normal circumstances. If rats are exposed to running wheels with food freely available, only very limited activity normally occurs. When rats with access to a running wheel are restricted to a fixed amount of food, presented once per day, consistent running occurs. The running is spontaneous and very sensitive to the amount of food provided. Six 6-wk-old rats of 197 g mean body wt were induced to run for 139 days. The distance run increased rapidly over a 20-day initial period on a food supply of 15 g/day (vs. 19.5 g/day consumption by sedentary controls). From day 20 to day 139 the mean distance run was described by the regression equation distance (m/day) = 10,410 - 37.9 X days. Food provided was varied according to distance run, ranging from 15 to 18 g/day, and was normally 17.5 g/day. Thus a food deprivation of 10% of normal consumption will result in mean distances run of approximately 8,000 m/day. The use of pair-fed control animals without access to a wheel allows the conduct of experiments to test the effects of chronic long-distance running. The running is spontaneous; thus the technique avoids the complications accompanying techniques that force running.
The use of a computer does not take the thought process out of burn care. Rather, it provides constant user reinforcement while emphasizing key elements of burn care management.
We present our preliminary experience using Surfasoft, a new dressing material, in the management of burns following skin grafting. It was found to be a useful dressing in awkward sites where conventional dressings have many disadvantages.
In the literature, drop jumping is advocated as an effective exercise for athletes who prepare themselves for explosive activities. When executing drop jumps, different jumping techniques can be used. In this study, the influence of jumping technique on the biomechanics of jumping is investigated. Ten subjects executed drop jumps from a height of 20 cm and counter-movement jumps. For the execution of the drop jumps, two different techniques were adopted. The first technique, referred to as bounce drop jump, required the subjects to reverse the downward velocity into an upward one as soon as possible after landing. The second technique, referred to as counter-movement drop jump, required them to do this more gradually by making a larger downward movement. During jumping, the subjects were filmed, ground reaction forces were registered, and electromyograms were recorded. The results of a biomechanical analysis show that moments and power output about knee and ankle joints reach larger values during the drop jumps than during counter-movement jumps. The largest values were attained during bounce drop jumps. Based on this finding, it was hypothesized that bounce drop jump is better suited than counter-movement drop jump for athletes who seek to improve the mechanical output of knee extensors and plantar flexors. Researchers are, therefore, advised to control jumping technique when investigating training effects of executing drop jumps.
The use of cutting current for electrosurgical excision is a valuable procedure for the cutaneous surgeon. Last month, the basic principles of cutting current were reviewed (J Dermatol Surg Oncol 14:29-31, 1988). This month, Part II will cover the technical aspects of cutting current administration.
The lead found in drinking water can be a source of lead poisoning to young children, particularly those who consume large amounts of water. The authors describe a 13-month-old infant who was discovered to have plumbism during routine evaluation. The lead source was ultimately traced to the daily administration of powdered formula which was prepared with home tap water having a first-draw lead content of 130 parts per billion. This case suggests that whenever infants are fed powdered formula, consideration should be given to analysis of the home tap water for lead content.
Four controlled trials and one case control study have presented data supporting the efficacy of perioperative administration of antibiotics in reducing the rate of infection following clean neurosurgical procedures. Their results are, for the most part, consistent with uncontrolled studies reported since 1980. Taken together, these studies clearly and consistently demonstrate the value of perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis in clean neurosurgical operations.
gamma-Irradiation of a laboratory strain of the Hawaiian species Drosophila heteroneura yielded 310 breaks in the five major acrocentric polytene chromosomes. Their map positions conform to the Poisson distribution, unlike most of the 436 natural breaks mapped in 105 closely related species endemic to Hawaii. Genome element E is longer and has more induced breaks than the others. Both in Hawaiian and related species groups, this element shows increased polymorphism and fixation of naturally occurring inversions. The X chromosome (element A) also accumulates many natural breaks; the majority of the resulting aberrations become fixed rather than remain as polymorphisms. Although size may play a small role in initial break distribution, the major effects relative to the establishment of a rearrangement in natural populations are ascribed to the interaction of selection and drift. Nonconformance of the natural breaks to the Poisson distribution appears to be due to the tendency for breaks to accumulate both in the proximal euchromatic portion of each arm and in heterochromatic regions that are not replicated in the polytene chromosomes.
A new challenge facing hospital management is the task of developing a close working relationship with physicians organized to effectively support managed care. How this challenge is met may play a pivotal role in the hospital's future.
Four cases of dermal melanocytosis with symmetrical areas of hyperpigmentation involving the face and extremities are reported. Light and electron microscopic studies showed changes similar to those seen in naevus of Ota.
The patient with somatic complaints may have a "clear-cut" medical condition or a somatoform disorder. The patient with psychologic complaints may have a "clear-cut" psychiatric disturbance or an organic brain disorder. Medical conditions may be worsened or complicated by psychologic factors. The challenge to the physician is to discover which category best encompasses the patient's symptoms so that a rational plan of management can be devised.
Articles, papers, and other documents are the forms given to the substance of nursing knowledge. Here are some common obstacles to clear communication in written scholarship, along with some advice on how to avoid them.
A case is reported in which a pattern of work related asthma in a record of peak expiratory flow was artefactual. The patient had pronounced morning dips, which she recorded on working days, when she made the first recording at 0700 h, but not on holiday, when she stayed in bed longer. The case emphasises the need for clear instructions to patients about peak flow records.
Recreational sports injuries are expensive to society. Prevention of such injuries must be a major public health goal. In a previous retrospective study, base sliding was found to be responsible for 71% of recreational softball injuries. Because most injuries occurred during rapid deceleration against stationary bases, quick-release (break-away) bases were evaluated as a means to modify this mechanism of injury. In a prospective study, 633 softball games were played on a break-away base fields and 627 games were played on stationary base fields. Forty-five sliding injuries occurred on the stationary base diamonds (1 injury for every 13.9 games) and only two sliding injuries occurred on the break-away fields (1 injury for every 316.5 games). The medical costs for injuries on the stationary base fields was 79 times greater than that on the break-away fields. In a 1035 game follow-up study performed on all fields equipped with break-away bases, two sliding injuries occurred (1 injury for every 517.5 games). Installing break-away bases in fields used by recreational leagues would achieve a significant reduction of serious softball injuries (98%) and, therefore, should be mandatory. Based on our findings, the Centers for Disease Control has estimated 1.7 million injuries would be prevented nationally per year, saving $2.0 billion per year nationally in acute medical care costs.
This study determined the factors influencing participation of elderly people in research. It involved subjects who signed consent for a study and those who refused consent. Consenters had significantly more positive feelings about being used as a subject; giving urine; giving blood; having a physical examination; being interviewed; taking an IQ test; answering questions; being a subject to help others; finding out about problems and as a way to pass time; and telling an interviewer the truth. Reasons given for partaking in research were the personality of the interviewer, interest in the project, and benefits to subject or others.
Body weight can be viewed as a physiologic variable that, like core temperature, is regulated at a specified level or set point. Adjustments in both food intake and energy expenditure are used to stabilize weight at the set-point level. Animal studies indicate that some forms of obesity can be regarded as instances of regulation at an elevated set point, while other forms seemingly result from a regulatory dysfunction. Possibly, a similar distinction between regulated and unregulated forms of obesity can be made in humans. Traditional weight-loss programs may be effective in treating unregulated forms. However, if obesity is the consequence of regulation at a high set point, a metabolic resistance to weight change will be encountered and weight loss will be difficult to achieve or maintain. Help for such patients will await development of safe and effective methods for altering the set point.
Extracellular immunoglobulin (IgG) deposits were shown by both light and electron microscopy in renal biopsy material using immunogold labelling. After fixation of tissue in 4% paraformaldehyde and embedding in Lowicryl K4M, semithin sections were cut and stained using the immunogold silver stain. The sections were then viewed and areas of interest were noted; ultrathin sections were cut from the same block of tissue, then stained using immunogold. Good localisation was achieved at both optical and ultrastructural levels allowing direct correlation to be made in the same area of tissue.
The aging of the population makes education in geriatrics vital to family practice residents, including training in house calls. This study examined the relationship of house call training in residency with current house call practices of recent graduates of family practice residencies. A questionnaire mailed to a random national sample of 301 family physicians who completed residency training between 1981 and 1986 obtained a 66% response rate with three mailings. House calls were not required in the curriculum for 80% of respondents, 30% never did house calls in residency, and 55% recognized they were not well trained in house calls. Graduates of programs in which faculty made house calls and those in which residents made house calls on a longitudinal basis were significantly more likely to offer house calls in their practices. This suggests that resident education can offer positive experiences in house call training to encourage future physicians to include house calls in their practices.
We used the 193-nm argon-fluoride excimer laser to cut plano corneal lenticules from fresh corneal tissue for lamellar keratoplasty. The laser was used to cut away all corneal tissue outside a specially designed mold, which was developed to obtain a corneal lenticule of 10 mm in diameter and a constant thickness of 0.3 mm. The surface topography of the excimer laser-cut corneal lenticule was smoother and more regular on scanning electron microscopy than a hand-cut corneal lenticule, and the thickness was constant around the surface. No thermal or mechanical damage to the cornea was observed on light microscopy in the area adjacent to the cut.
A right-handed man with a left hemisphere lesion extending into the right hemisphere, with evidence of both a left-sided neglect dyslexia and right-sided visuospatial neglect is reported. When copying simple geometric designs he omitted to copy figures on the right-hand side of the page, when bisecting lines he tended to bisect the line to the left of the line's actual centre. He had a neglect dyslexia which was characterised by paralexic errors affecting the beginning (that is, left) of words. The occurrence of these two phenomena provides evidence of a dissociation of these forms of neglect. The findings are discussed in relation to the possible mechanisms of unilateral neglect.
A dynamic, in vivo, functional analysis of braces designed for ACL insufficiency has never been reported. In this study, 14 athletes who had arthroscopically proven absent ACLs were evaluated in the Biomechanics Laboratory at the Centinela Hospital Medical Center. None of the ligaments were repaired or reconstructed. Footswitch, high speed photography, and force place data were recorded while the athletes performed running and cutting maneuvers with and without their custom fitted C.Ti. braces (Innovation Sports, Irvine, CA). Cybex testing, KT-1000 evaluation, and radiographs were collected for each subject. Statistical analysis showed that while performing cutting maneuvers, braced limbs generated significantly increased shear forces compared to the same limb unbraced. During straight line running, braced limbs generated significantly less lateral and aft shear forces compared to the same limb unbraced. Running velocity increased while wearing a brace for most athletes, but this was not statistically significant. As expected, the sound limb generated significantly greater shear forces than the unbraced involved limb during most cutting maneuvers. Athletes who did not achieve 80% of the Cybex (Cybex, Division of Lumex, Ronkonkoma, NY) quadriceps torque of the sound limb generated significantly more forces during cutting maneuvers while wearing their braces. The cutting angle, approach time to the cut, and time on the force plate showed no significant differences during brace wear. We conclude that the C.Ti brace allows significantly better running and cutting performances for athletes who have torn ACLs. Athletes who have not achieved 80% of quadricep strength as measured by Cybex testing showed even more improvement while wearing their braces.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Four patients developed inferior retinal redetachment following initially successful surgery which included intraocular injection of air and sulphahexafluoride (SF6) mixture. In each case the intravitreal gas bubble produced vitreoretinal traction which opened inferior retinal breaks and led to retinal separation. Cautious use of intraocular gas is advised when bullous upper rhegmatogenous retinal detachments are accompanied by inferior retinal breaks.
A case is reported in which instrument breakage occurred in the temporomandibular joint during arthroscopic surgery. The technique used for removal of the broken metal fragment is described.
The running behavior and biochemical markers of oxidative and glycolytic activities associated with voluntary running activity were studied in male Sprague-Dawley rats after 6 wk of training in exercise wheel cages. Twenty-four-hour recordings of running activity were used to quantify the number of individual running bouts, their duration and running speed, and the distance run per day. We then established three categories of voluntary running activity based on the mean distance run per day during the last 3 wk of training: low-activity runners averaged 2-5 km/day, medium runners 6-9 km/day, and high runners greater than 11 km/day. Each group demonstrated an intermittent, nocturnal running pattern, at relatively high intensities, with a similar mean running speed for all groups (avg approximately 45 m/min). Differences in total distance run per day were the result of variations in both the number and duration of individual running bouts. Specifically, high runners (n = 7) had 206 +/- 30 individual running bouts per 24 h, each lasting 87 +/- 7 s; medium runners (n = 7) 221 +/- 22 running bouts, lasting 47 +/- 5 s; and low runners (n = 7) 113 +/- 7 bouts, each lasting 40 +/- 7 s. Voluntary running depressed the rate of body weight gain compared with sedentary control rats, despite an increased food and water intake for all runners. Furthermore, drinking activity was temporally associated with running periods.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To determine how accurately elderly subjects recall recent falls, we studied 304 ambulatory men and women over the age of 60 years who completed a 12-month prospective study of risk factors for falling. We developed a system of weekly follow-up and home visits to record and confirm all falls. During the study, 179 participants suffered at least one fall that was confirmed by home visit. At the end of the study, all subjects were interviewed by telephone about whether they had suffered a fall during the preceding 3, 6, or 12 months. Depending on the time period of recall, 13% to 32% of those with confirmed falls did not recall falling during the specific period of time. Recall was better for the preceding 12 months than for 3 or 6 months. There were only weak correlations (r = 0.28 to 0.59) between the number of falls that were documented and the number that the subjects recalled during each of these periods. Those with lower scores on the Mini-Mental State Examination were more likely to forget falls. We conclude that elderly subjects often do not recall falls that occurred during specific periods of time over the preceding 3 to 12 months. Researchers and clinicians should consider using methods besides long-term recall for ascertaining and counting falls over specific periods of time.
Bilateral paraspinal electromyogram (EMG) at levels L1-L2 and L4-L5, and abdominal EMG of a group of 20 low-back pain patients were compared to those of a group of 20 pain-free controls during flexion, extension, lateral bending to right and left, and rotation to right and left. The results showed no significant left-right differences in paraspinal EMG levels between low-back pain patients and pain-free controls during any of the movements. However, patterns of paraspinal and abdominal EMG were found to be different for low-back pain patients compared to pain-free controls during flexion only.
A retrospective review of 832 patients with squamous cell cancer of the head and neck between 1961 and 1985 was carried out to determine the incidence of multiple primary cancers (MPC) at the time of autopsy and the number who died of the second cancer. The overall risk of developing a second MPC of the head and neck, lung, or esophagus from treatment of first head and neck cancer to time of autopsy was 4.04% per year.
After death, during disintegration, various environmental conditions and fauna play an important role, indicating "time since death." The natural openings of the host body provide the most important breeding place for an agent which could consume the body very quickly, e.g., flies. Wounds are preferred over the natural openings by this agent. In such cases, antemortem wounds become unidentifiable. This paper presents the study of 25 cases in which inferences relating to the maturation of blow fly life stages and the total developmental time of an adult blow fly in breeding experiments in the prevailing environment are drawn. These can be used to help estimate the "time since death" of infested bodies.
Left ventricular assist device (LVAD) pumping has hemodynamic and anatomic influences on right ventricular performance. A total artificial heart (TAH) model was employed to better understand the hemodynamic influence of an LVAD on the failing right ventricle. Biventricular failure was simulated by reducing both ventricular drive pressures of the TAH. After getting hemodynamic data, LVAD pumping in the case of right ventricular failure was simulated by increasing just the left ventricular drive pressure. In the LVAD-simulating condition, cardiac output increased and right atrial pressure decreased significantly (p less than 0.05) compared with the biventricular failure condition, whereas right ventricular function and minute work were the same in these two conditions. Even though changes were accompanied by adaptive increases in pulmonary resistance, substantially lower pulmonary artery and left atrial pressures resulted in the LVAD-simulating condition. From a hemodynamic perspective, these results indicate that an LVAD can increase right ventricular volume work by decreasing right ventricular pressure work, whereas right ventricular net pressure-volume work is unchanged and right ventricular failure is not worsened.
The major fissures of the right and left lungs were studied with standard computed tomography (CT) (10-mm-thick sections) and thin-section CT (2-mm-thick sections) in 50 patients. On standard CT scans, the major fissures were seen in 90%-100% of cases at each of three selected levels. They usually appeared as hypoattenuating bands and less often as lines or hyperattenuating bands. Although in most cases the major fissure was seen as a line on thin-section CT scans, this appearance was more common in the upper portion of the left major fissure than in the upper portion of the right major fissure. A "double-fissure sign" was most frequently seen at the base of the left lung; however, the sign was also seen at higher levels, with approximately equal frequency in the right and left lungs. An incomplete major fissure was noted in the right lung in 32 cases (64%) and in the left lung in 26 cases (52%). The upper and middle portions of the left major fissure were less frequently incomplete than were the comparable portions of the right major fissure. Thin-section CT provided better delineation of the major interlobar fissures than did standard CT.
OBJECTIVE--To determine the advantages and disadvantages of a shift system of working compared with the conventional on call system for preregistration house officers. DESIGN--A shift system of working was employed in the unit from 1 August 1989 to 31 July 1990. During attachments of three or six months four house officers rotated at intervals of one month among three daytime shifts and one night shift (Mondays to Fridays only). Weekends (48 hours) were worked on a one in three rota by the doctors working a day shift. The views of the house officers working this shift system were sought in writing and by direct interview. SETTING--Professorial surgical unit, Royal Liverpool Hospital. SUBJECTS--The 14 house officers who were attached to the unit for three or six months during their preregistration year. RESULTS--The shift system was preferred to conventional on call without exception. The incidence of chronic tiredness was reduced and formal hand-over between shifts resulted in more informed decision making by doctors while on call. During annual leave it was sometimes necessary to revert to the conventional one in three on call system to ensure that daytime work was completed. Other disadvantages were the long weekend shift and an inequitable distribution of the night shift. The house officers recommended extending the shifts to weekends and working the night shift one week in four. CONCLUSION--A shift system of working was effective in reducing chronic tiredness among house officers, who found it preferable to conventional on call arrangements. Shift working is feasible only if the daytime duties of the doctor working at night can be completed by the other doctors on the rota.
A patient who underwent complete cerebral commissurotomy was tested before and after surgery on tasks involving drawing and recognition memory for visual hierarchical stimuli. These stimuli consisted of a large, higher-level form constructed from smaller, lower-level forms. Postoperatively, the patient was more accurate in drawing and recognizing higher-level forms relative to lower-level forms when responding with his left hand and primarily right hemisphere, whereas he showed the opposite pattern when responding with his right hand and primarily left hemisphere. Implications of these findings for theories of the cerebral organization of visuospatial processing are discussed.
A case is described of prolonged neuromuscular block in a patient who was given the muscle relaxant vecuronium followed by bolus injections of the antibiotics gentamycin and clindamycin.
During the first few weeks of life many preterm infants develop flattened heads. We have shown that this deformity can be reduced by nursing preterm infants on soft, air filled mattresses of the type used for detecting apnoea.
The National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) has reviewed its procedure for setting pass-fail standards in conjunction with the introduction of its comprehensive Part I and Part II examinations in 1991. This report gives background information on the procedures used for the past decade to set pass-fail standards for the Part I and Part II examinations, an overview of the NBME's research on standard setting, under way since 1987, and a statement of its plans for determining pass-fail standards for these examinations. In 1981 the NBME changed from the norm-referenced standard, used since the 1950s, to a criterion-group approach to setting pass-fail standards. Although the criterion-group system resulted in more stable standards, it still meant that the standard moved whenever the performance of the reference group changed. After conducting research, surveying constituencies, and examining alternatives, the NBME has adopted a new standard-setting plan that has the following components: a content-based standard-setting procedure; determination of standards by an appropriate group; use of a fixed standard; and periodic review of standards and standard-setting procedures. This new process will produce three types of improvements: it will incorporate deliberations informed by a wide range of information, including content review; annual review of examinees' performances and pass-fail results and triennial restudy of the process will add further quality control; and a fixed standard will mean that comparable performances will be required across administrations in order to pass.
Falls are a major threat to the health of older persons. We evaluated potential risk factors for falls in 325 community-dwelling persons aged 60 years or older who had fallen during the previous year, then followed up weekly for 1 year to ascertain nonsyncopal falls and their consequences. Risk factors for having a single fall were few and relatively weak, but multiple falls were more predictable. In multivariate analyses, we found increased odds of two or more falls for persons who had difficulty standing up from a chair, difficulty performing a tandem walk, arthritis, Parkinson's disease, three or more falls during the previous year, and a fall with injury during the previous year, and for whites. The proportion of subjects with two or more falls per year increased from 0.10 for those with none or one of these risk factors to 0.69 for those with four or more risk factors. Among older persons with a history of a recent fall, the risk of multiple nonsyncopal falls can be predicted from a few simple questions and examinations.
As their country tries to break away from the Soviet political system, Latvian nurses try to break away from a Soviet health care system that has relegated their profession to one completely dominated by physicians. Two Latvian-born American nurses provide a glimpse of the early stages of this struggle.
The result of the new plan, hopes Smeltzer, will be a dramatic reduction in the nursing shortage, at least at UCH. "We find this plan appeals to nurses on several levels," said Smeltzer. "First, it provides financial rewards, and those rewards affirm the Hospitals' commitment to treating nurses as highly valued professionals. Second, it will create a better working environment for nurses, with more full-time nurses working together as established teams. In the long-run, this nursing plan should lead to improved patient care. By reducing the nursing vacancy rate, encouraging nurses to work full time, and reducing the Hospitals' dependence on temporary nurses hired through registries, we should have better-trained, more experienced nurses caring for patients."
Cushing's syndrome due to the abuse of Betamethasone nasal drops has not been described before. This report presents such a case and emphasises the care which one must take in prescribing topical steroids.
Mycoplasma contamination is tough to detect and even more difficult to eradicate. It is best to start over fresh from clean cell stocks, but several elimination options are available.
Attending physicians should work with the interdisciplinary team to ensure that the nursing home staff plays a critical part in maintaining the visually impaired resident's function.
The spread of AIDS through heterosexual contact in Asia and Africa has reached truly epidemic proportions. The rest of the world should take notice while there is time.
This report reviews individual-related variables, environment-related variables and instrument-related variables, with a focus on the Evaporimeter EP1 (ServoMed). Start-up and use is described, and guidelines for good laboratory practice given.
Because of discontinuation of base hospital participation, paramedics in a large urban zone of a California emergency medical services (EMS) system serving 1.1 million persons went on emergency standing orders for nearly all calls requiring advanced life support. Subsequently, the base hospital resumed medical control function under limited standing orders. Standing orders were allowed for calls that required rapid intervention with little probability of morbidity. The EMS agency conducted a retrospective study to compare times at scene and total prehospital care times before (control group) and after institution of standing orders and limited standing orders. There were significant differences in total prehospital care times and at-scene times between the control group and the two standing order groups (P less than .01). There are important implications to EMS systems that use extensive base hospital contact.
We present the findings in a patient who underwent pneumonectomy and developed a chronic bronchopleural fistula and empyema and who developed an intrathoracic aspergilloma after open-window thoracostomy. To our knowledge, formation of an aspergilloma in an open intrathoracic cavity has not been reported previously.
When a chronically ill elderly woman complained that she felt something was wrong, close attention and follow-up by physician and nursing home staff paid off.
Differentiating language changes between the normal aged and those in the early stages of dementia is never simple. Knowing the differences and what to expect can aid in making this diagnosis.
Information about healthcare "bargains" is easy to obtain. Physicians who take the time to familiarize themselves with costs in their hospitals and clinics can help reduce charges for tests and drugs and can avoid wasteful use of supplies and misuse of staff time that can lead to additional charges. Education is effective in fighting rising healthcare costs, but efforts need to be ongoing if patients and medical institutions are to benefit in the long run.
The author presents the historical backdrop of the advent of the American Society of Head and Neck Surgery and the Society of Head and Neck Surgeons and their paths that began wide apart and which, over the years, have become closer, even intertwining with the formation of the Joint Council for Approval of Advanced Training in Head and Neck Oncologic Surgery in 1974. The future of head and neck oncology and the role the two societies can play are also commented on.
Residual stress in an organ is defined as the stress that remains when all external loads are removed. Residual stress has generally been ignored in published papers on left ventricular wall stress. To take residual stress into account in the analysis of stress distributions in a beating heart, one must first measure the residual strain in the no-load state of the heart. Residual strains in equatorial cross-sectional rings (2-3 mm thick) of five potassium-arrested rat left ventricles were measured. The effects of friction and external loading were reduced by submersing the specimen in fluid, and a hypothermic, hyperkalemic arresting solution containing nifedipine and EGTA was used to delay the onset of ischemic contracture. Stainless steel microspheres (60-100 microns) were lightly imbedded on the surface of the slices, and the coordinates of the microspheres were digitized from photographs taken before and after a radial cut was made through the left ventricular free wall. Two-dimensional strains computed from the deformation of a slice after one radial cut were defined as the residual strains in that slice. It was found that the distributions of the principal residual stretch ratios were asymmetric with respect to the radial cut: in areas where substantial transmural strain gradients existed, the distributions of strain components were different on the two sides of the radial cut. A second radial cut produced deformations significantly smaller than those produced from the first radial cut. Hence, a slice with one radial cut may be considered stress free.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A technique for passing interosseous wires is described. By using an intravenous cathether, it is possible to pass an interosseous wire through the drill hole without difficulty.
A series of body charts have been designed that are more representative of changing body proportion with increasing age. Being easier to use, these charts have led to a better estimate by the casualty doctor of the body surface area that has been burned.
A prospective study of 440 eyes of 220 patients following successful operations for primary rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (132 eyes) and prophylactic operations for retinal breaks (103 eyes) revealed an incidence of preretinal macular fibrosis (PRMF) of 47% after scleral buckling surgery and 42% after prophylactic laser or cryopexy. The incidence of PRMF was significantly greater in aphakic vs phakic detachments, in detachments with operculated vs horseshoe breaks, in detachments with horseshoe breaks vs lattice degeneration, in detachments involving the macula, after scleral buckling with cryotherapy vs diathermy, and after prophylactic treatment of retinal breaks of fellow eyes with retinal detachment or retinal breaks that had developed postoperative PRMF. Analysis of the data suggests that PRMF is most likely a result of the retinal break, detachment, and subsequent treatment.
Cutting current is a valuable tool in the office surgical practice due to its speed, efficiency, and economy. Most electrosurgical generators produce a blended wave form that coagulates the tissue as it is cut. Care should be taken to see that the patient is adequately grounded with a dispersive electrode to prevent cutaneous burns. The cutting of the tissue should be brisk and with the smallest electrode and power setting possible. By using careful electrosurgical technique, the surgeon can produce an incised wound that heals as well as one created by cold steel excision.
Bright light exposure has been found to alleviate the symptoms of recurrent winter depression in many patients. The mechanism of light therapy may involve shifts in the timing (phase) of circadian rhythms. In this study, morning light exposure (which shifts rhythms earlier) was compared with evening light exposure (which shifts rhythms later) in a double-blind, crossover design. The onset of melatonin secretion in the evening was measured under dim light conditions as a marker for circadian timing (phase) before and after each treatment. Eight patients with winter depression and five control subjects were studied. Morning light was found to be significantly better than evening light in reducing depressive symptoms. At baseline, there was a trend for the onset of melatonin production to be later in the patients than in the controls. Morning light shifted the melatonin onset significantly earlier in the patients but not the controls. Our findings suggest that patients with winter depression have circadian rhythms that are abnormally delayed and that bright light therapy benefits winter depression by providing a corrective advance.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of heel lifts on ground reaction force patterns in subjects with structural leg-length discrepancies (LLDs). Eighteen subjects with LLDs ranging from 4.8 to 22.2 mm participated in this study. Subject age range was from 20 to 63 years. A force platform was used to obtain ground reaction force data for four conditions. Data were collected prior to fitting of the heel lift and after a three-week break-in period. Data were analyzed by use of a two-factor within-subject analysis of variance for repeated measures. Before heel-lift fitting, maximum lateral force was greater in the short leg than in the long leg. After heel-lift fitting, maximum vertical force was greater within both legs, and maximum medical force was greater in the long leg than in the short leg. The results suggest that although heel lifts are used to achieve pelvic levelness, the use of heel lifts also resulted in increased ground reaction forces, which may cause increased joint stresses within the lower extremities.
All patient telephone calls to a two-physician private family practice were recorded for a 2-month period. There were 1264 calls, of which 539 were patient-initiated calls for specific medical problems. The 21 patients responsible for four or more of these 539 calls were labeled high utilizers. Chart comparisons were done for high-utilizer and 20 control patients. Calls of high utilizers were also compared with all other calls. High utilizers were older and showed evidence of more emotional dysfunction, more face-to-face medical contacts, more medical problems in general, and a suggestion of less social support. They did not seem to use the telephone in place of face-to-face visits, but used it in addition to an also higher rate of direct physician encounters.
The head nurse has become a critical link in managing successful hospital units in this post-DRG (Diagnosis Related Group) era. As more nursing services move to a decentralized model, the head nurse role has grown in complexity and accountability far beyond entry level nursing preparation. This study explores the patterns of use of head nurses in United States hospitals and how they should be educated.
The authors review the principle of proportional myoelectric control, in which the motor voltage of a prosthetic hand varies in direct proportion to the EMG signal, giving the amputee control over speed and force of grip. This type of myoelectric control is contrasted with digital myoelectric control, in which the system is fully on or off, giving the amputee no control over speed of hand opening and closing, and the grip force is increased only by increasing the time of the sustained EMG signal. A survey was conducted of 33 patients wearing the proportional myoelectric hand. Patients rated quickness of opening and closing; control over speed and force; effort required to open and close; and comfort, convenience, and cosmesis of the hand; as well as giving it an overall rating in comparison with their previous terminal device. The ratings were made on a 5-level scale, so that they could be quantified. Patient responses were grouped according to previous experience with a terminal device type: group A: digital myoelectric hand; group B: body-powered terminal device; group C: no terminal device. Differences in group means were compared using Student's t test. Previous digital hand wearers gave significantly higher ratings to the proportionally controlled hand overall, especially for its quickness, control of speed and force, and the effort required to open and close the hand. Former body-powered terminal device wearers rated the proportionally controlled hand significantly better on control over speed and force and on cosmesis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Many of the decisions in complex health care organizations are made by small work groups. Nurse administrators often lead or are highly involved in these groups, where reaching quality decisions is a critical goal. This paper examines research and information from the communications field, presenting a model for making decisions in small groups. The author identifies common pitfalls of decision-making groups and presents strategies for problem solving and improved decision making.
A simple, straight forward, almost mechanical method of drawing the hairline is presented. It is amazing to see how this method, when followed closely, consistently produces a natural, aesthetically pleasing result on all sizes and shapes of heads. It is recognized by the authors that there are a lot of individual variations among hair transplant surgeons and most will be very attractive and quite natural. However, we believe that the following description will provide a good starting point in designing hairlines, and if the basic points are followed, unnatural hairlines will be avoided.
The exact measurement of femoral head cover is essential for an assessment of reduction of congenital dislocation of the hip. We have compared standard anteroposterior radiographs with computerised tomograms and thereby classified the shape of the acetabular roof into four types. We found that the CE angle of Wiberg is a more reliable measure of head cover when the lateral point of bony condensation of the roof is chosen as the reference point rather than the edge of the bone, where these two points do not overlap. We conclude that head cover can be more accurately determined in younger children with dysplastic hips by our 'refined' CE angle, than by the original method of Wiberg.
To allocate indirect fixed costs to the different units in an organization, fixed costs of a supporting service should be charged to the factor that creates the demand for the service (using the dual-rate-charging method) and overhead costs should be charged to the binding constraint of the organization.
Low levels of visible light directed onto slices of rat cerebral cortical tissue enhanced net potassium-induced release of the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) from these brain slices. At higher light intensity, net potassium-induced release was suppressed. These effects were apparently not from increased temperature. The amount of light enhancing this neurotransmitter release is approximately equal to the amount of light that can penetrate the head and reach the brain at the intensities of sunlight; this was determined by measuring the light entering the rat head through fur, scalp, skull, and dura mater and considering several natural lighting conditions. These results suggest that ambient light may be sufficient to alter the release of transmitters from mammalian cerebral cortex in vivo.
Paracetamol suppositories in two different bases were given to children who had fever after operations. Plasma concentrations and the effect on temperature were compared. There was a significant correlation between peak plasma concentrations and maximum drop in temperature. A lipophilic base produced better results than a hydrophilic base.
Lifting is a major source of back injuries because of the mechanical effects on the spinal structures. A number of methods are known by which a lifter can reduce the load on the spine during lifting. This study explores an additional method: rotation of the load before it is actually lifted off the ground. The hypothesis tested is that when a lifter lifts a box, he or she rotates it before it leaves the floor. By the use of an optoelectronic system to study weight box rotation, it was established that rotation occurs in every lift before the actual lift occurs. Rotation time increased with increasing load, indicating that the rotation technique is more important when load reduction is most critical.
