During aortic valvuloplasty a guidewire was broken, and the broken fragment remained in the left ventricle. This left ventricular foreign body was retrieved percutaneously by a snare.
A case of nonvesicular dermatitis herpetiformis with clear-cut perimenstrual exacerbations is described and differentiated from autoimmune progesterone dermatitis.
A surgical head rest is described that gives good wrist support, provides space to place instruments, and allows drainage of irrigation fluid.
In some respects, things are getting worse, not better, for women in science. Positive measures need to be taken for progress towards genuine equality of opportunity.
Falling represents a common and dangerous problem for the elderly. As a result, fall prevention has become a focus of clinical attention. This article examines why older people fall, what factors place persons at risk for falling, and how to prevent falls.
They're slow, they're hard-of-hearing, they don't get better--elderly patients can be a pain in the practice. Here's how to keep them away.
Return-to-work data were prospectively obtained from 155 adult burn patients who were employed before their injuries. Average time from burn to return to work was 63 days, and average time from discharge to return to work was 42 days. Size and depth of burn, occurrence of hand burns, age of the
To determine the current incidence and outcome of iatrogenic retinal breaks occurring during pars plana vitrectomy, the authors reviewed 404 consecutive operations done on eyes without preexisting retinal breaks. Thirteen eyes had 14 iatrogenic peripheral retinal breaks. Three other eyes had both peripheral breaks and posterior breaks. Twenty-five eyes had 43
The finding that patients with neglect make larger errors when bisecting longer lines could be due to failure to disengage attention from a segment of the line on the ipsilesional side, or to a reduced ability to direct attention and/or action contralaterally. The findings are reported from a patient with left-sided
Patients with unilateral spatial neglect fail to report or respond to stimuli contralateral to the lesion which usually involves the right parietal lobe. When asked to mark the centre of a horizontal line, these patients place the mark to the right of the true midpoint. It has been considered that they
Your patients are growing older--but do they see it that way?
We are convinced that a best-interests approach is the best approach to take in making decisions to treat or not to treat disabled young infants. Such an approach acknowledges that there are some medical conditions that are so severe that efforts to sustain the lives of infants having the conditions cannot
A third-generation balloon catheter that accepts a fiberoptic has been developed. The fiberoptic is inserted through the catheter to the center of the balloon when the balloon is in the area of the retinal break. Viewed with the ophthalmoscope light at dim to off, the balloon can be seen glowing through
A chest tube can be used to change a tracheostomy tube just as a Seldinger wire is used to change a central line. A good match for size is important. The flange should be cut off of the chest tube and the inspired oxygen should be increased. Positive pressure ventilation can
Selection of cutoff points for tests to validate smoking cessation should take account of the prevalence of deception. When the prevalence of deception is relatively low, the cutoff points to validate quitting should be relatively high. Many studies have used cutoff points that are too low and may have underestimated cessation
Differences of opinion exist as to whether visualization of the coronary arterial tree is better with 525-line or 1,023-line video imaging systems. The 1,023-line acquisition has been associated with image degradation; 525-line display, however, has prominent raster lines that may also degrade the image. For evaluation of this issue, identical coronary
A standardized test for measuring the needle penetration forces has been developed that can be easily replicated in any laboratory. Using this test, conventional cutting edge needles utilized in the test produced lower penetration forces than reverse cutting edge needles. The lower penetration forces encountered by the conventional cutting edge needles
The amount of energy used to run a mile is nearly the same whether it is run at top speed or at a leisurely pace (although it is used more rapidly at the higher speed). This puzzling independence of energy cost and speed is found generally among running animals, although, on
We compared, under laboratory conditions, the resistance to cutting out of the AO dynamic hip screw and the Pugh sliding nail. The mean load at cut out, adjusted for bone strength, was 70% greater for the Pugh sliding nail. The reasons for this difference are discussed.
The purposes of this investigation were 1) to compare the forces produced by the elbow flexor muscles during make tests and break tests and 2) to determine the reliability of each of the test procedures. I used a hand-held dynamometer to perform two make tests and two break tests on 27
The authors present three cases of women who began to cut themselves superficially after they had been raped. To the authors' knowledge, no such findings have been reported in the current literature on short- and long-term effects of rape.
Patients with neglect erred toward the right when attempting to locate the intercepts of their midsagittal planes with a horizontal line placed in front of them. When control subjects could not see their bodies, they also pointed to the right. While control subjects improved when they were able to see their
The phenomenon of accidental death due to falls at work was studied: 15 cases that occurred during the years 1983-1987, in which a worker died from a job-related fall, are presented in some detail. A discussion follows in which risk factors for these incidents are presented along with suggestions about how
Mitotic recombination between his3 heteroalleles on heterologous chromosomes is stimulated by a DNA double chain break delivered in vivo at a site 8.6 kilobase pairs distant from one his3 allele and unlinked to the other. The induced recombination at his3 is accompanied by gap repair at the break site using the
This study was performed in an attempt to determine the total spinal compressive load during assembly line work to find a possible association with the many complaints of back pain. A flexion analyzer was used to register trunk movements, and analysis of postures and lifted weights was done from video recordings.
A sample of 81 elderly subjects (M age = 76 years) volunteered to take part in a study to determine whether the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) Short Form is an acceptable substitute for the GDS Long Form. Half of the subjects took the GDS Long Form first, and half took the
Grating contrast sensitivity was measured using different colors and different grating orientations. The contrast sensitivity was highest when measured with green light, a little less when measured with red light, and lowest with blue light. The contrast sensitivity with blue light was relatively low compared with green and red light for
Excessive pronation is accepted as a good indicator for various running injuries. The least amount of pronation takes place when running barefoot. The latest investigations show that this is connected to a large torsional movement between forefoot and rearfoot which can be influenced by the shoe sole construction. The shoes which
We report a case of a large perirenal hematoma following extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL) that resulted in compromised renal blood flow and function and necessitated open surgical drainage. Caution is advised and close follow-up recommended in patients who have taken aspirin-containing compounds, are elderly, have hypertension, or exhibit a significant drop
The goal of the Resource-Based Relative Value Scale is to measure the resource costs of physicians' services, or, more centrally, the physicians' total work. This article describes the estimation of relative values for physicians' work before and after the performance of a service (preservice and postservice work). For methodological and practical
"The CEO doesn't take care of patients; the CEO takes care of the people who take care of patients," says Eire "Chip" Chapman, the president of 869-bed Riverside Methodist Hospitals. This philosophy is endorsed by other top administrators who have made a point to leave their desks to investigate first-hand employee
Sections of urinary calculi were prepared and point-by-point analyses along a line-scan were carried out using the techniques of proton-induced X-ray emission (PIXE) and nuclear reaction analysis (NRA). Correlations between several pairs of elements (including trace elements) were noted and it was also clear that the composition of a stone varied
A new occluder to perform the cover test allows visualization of the covered eye through the occluder and direct observation of heterophorias. The occluder is composed of an aluminium-polyester filter mounted on a support in front of a 2.2-V light bulb.
The location of retinal breaks found on preoperative examination was studied in 68 eyes of 68 patients with recurrent retinal detachment and proliferative vitreoretinopathy. Twelve eyes had 23 open breaks that were known to exist previously, no open break was detected in 18 eyes, and 72 new or previously unidentified breaks
The rat is widely used in studies of the metabolic and physiological effects of physical exercise. The most commonly used form of exercise is running on treadmills or mechanically driven running wheels. Rats will not voluntarily run significant distances, under normal circumstances. If rats are exposed to running wheels with food
The use of a computer does not take the thought process out of burn care. Rather, it provides constant user reinforcement while emphasizing key elements of burn care management.
We present our preliminary experience using Surfasoft, a new dressing material, in the management of burns following skin grafting. It was found to be a useful dressing in awkward sites where conventional dressings have many disadvantages.
In the literature, drop jumping is advocated as an effective exercise for athletes who prepare themselves for explosive activities. When executing drop jumps, different jumping techniques can be used. In this study, the influence of jumping technique on the biomechanics of jumping is investigated. Ten subjects executed drop jumps from a
The use of cutting current for electrosurgical excision is a valuable procedure for the cutaneous surgeon. Last month, the basic principles of cutting current were reviewed (J Dermatol Surg Oncol 14:29-31, 1988). This month, Part II will cover the technical aspects of cutting current administration.
The lead found in drinking water can be a source of lead poisoning to young children, particularly those who consume large amounts of water. The authors describe a 13-month-old infant who was discovered to have plumbism during routine evaluation. The lead source was ultimately traced to the daily administration of powdered
Four controlled trials and one case control study have presented data supporting the efficacy of perioperative administration of antibiotics in reducing the rate of infection following clean neurosurgical procedures. Their results are, for the most part, consistent with uncontrolled studies reported since 1980. Taken together, these studies clearly and consistently demonstrate
gamma-Irradiation of a laboratory strain of the Hawaiian species Drosophila heteroneura yielded 310 breaks in the five major acrocentric polytene chromosomes. Their map positions conform to the Poisson distribution, unlike most of the 436 natural breaks mapped in 105 closely related species endemic to Hawaii. Genome element E is longer and
A new challenge facing hospital management is the task of developing a close working relationship with physicians organized to effectively support managed care. How this challenge is met may play a pivotal role in the hospital's future.
Four cases of dermal melanocytosis with symmetrical areas of hyperpigmentation involving the face and extremities are reported. Light and electron microscopic studies showed changes similar to those seen in naevus of Ota.
The patient with somatic complaints may have a "clear-cut" medical condition or a somatoform disorder. The patient with psychologic complaints may have a "clear-cut" psychiatric disturbance or an organic brain disorder. Medical conditions may be worsened or complicated by psychologic factors. The challenge to the physician is to discover which category
Articles, papers, and other documents are the forms given to the substance of nursing knowledge. Here are some common obstacles to clear communication in written scholarship, along with some advice on how to avoid them.
A case is reported in which a pattern of work related asthma in a record of peak expiratory flow was artefactual. The patient had pronounced morning dips, which she recorded on working days, when she made the first recording at 0700 h, but not on holiday, when she stayed in bed
Recreational sports injuries are expensive to society. Prevention of such injuries must be a major public health goal. In a previous retrospective study, base sliding was found to be responsible for 71% of recreational softball injuries. Because most injuries occurred during rapid deceleration against stationary bases, quick-release (break-away) bases were evaluated
This study determined the factors influencing participation of elderly people in research. It involved subjects who signed consent for a study and those who refused consent. Consenters had significantly more positive feelings about being used as a subject; giving urine; giving blood; having a physical examination; being interviewed; taking an IQ
Body weight can be viewed as a physiologic variable that, like core temperature, is regulated at a specified level or set point. Adjustments in both food intake and energy expenditure are used to stabilize weight at the set-point level. Animal studies indicate that some forms of obesity can be regarded as
Extracellular immunoglobulin (IgG) deposits were shown by both light and electron microscopy in renal biopsy material using immunogold labelling. After fixation of tissue in 4% paraformaldehyde and embedding in Lowicryl K4M, semithin sections were cut and stained using the immunogold silver stain. The sections were then viewed and areas of interest
The aging of the population makes education in geriatrics vital to family practice residents, including training in house calls. This study examined the relationship of house call training in residency with current house call practices of recent graduates of family practice residencies. A questionnaire mailed to a random national sample of
We used the 193-nm argon-fluoride excimer laser to cut plano corneal lenticules from fresh corneal tissue for lamellar keratoplasty. The laser was used to cut away all corneal tissue outside a specially designed mold, which was developed to obtain a corneal lenticule of 10 mm in diameter and a constant thickness
A right-handed man with a left hemisphere lesion extending into the right hemisphere, with evidence of both a left-sided neglect dyslexia and right-sided visuospatial neglect is reported. When copying simple geometric designs he omitted to copy figures on the right-hand side of the page, when bisecting lines he tended to bisect
A dynamic, in vivo, functional analysis of braces designed for ACL insufficiency has never been reported. In this study, 14 athletes who had arthroscopically proven absent ACLs were evaluated in the Biomechanics Laboratory at the Centinela Hospital Medical Center. None of the ligaments were repaired or reconstructed. Footswitch, high speed photography,
Four patients developed inferior retinal redetachment following initially successful surgery which included intraocular injection of air and sulphahexafluoride (SF6) mixture. In each case the intravitreal gas bubble produced vitreoretinal traction which opened inferior retinal breaks and led to retinal separation. Cautious use of intraocular gas is advised when bullous upper rhegmatogenous
A case is reported in which instrument breakage occurred in the temporomandibular joint during arthroscopic surgery. The technique used for removal of the broken metal fragment is described.
The running behavior and biochemical markers of oxidative and glycolytic activities associated with voluntary running activity were studied in male Sprague-Dawley rats after 6 wk of training in exercise wheel cages. Twenty-four-hour recordings of running activity were used to quantify the number of individual running bouts, their duration and running speed,
To determine how accurately elderly subjects recall recent falls, we studied 304 ambulatory men and women over the age of 60 years who completed a 12-month prospective study of risk factors for falling. We developed a system of weekly follow-up and home visits to record and confirm all falls. During the
Bilateral paraspinal electromyogram (EMG) at levels L1-L2 and L4-L5, and abdominal EMG of a group of 20 low-back pain patients were compared to those of a group of 20 pain-free controls during flexion, extension, lateral bending to right and left, and rotation to right and left. The results showed no significant
A retrospective review of 832 patients with squamous cell cancer of the head and neck between 1961 and 1985 was carried out to determine the incidence of multiple primary cancers (MPC) at the time of autopsy and the number who died of the second cancer. The overall risk of developing a
After death, during disintegration, various environmental conditions and fauna play an important role, indicating "time since death." The natural openings of the host body provide the most important breeding place for an agent which could consume the body very quickly, e.g., flies. Wounds are preferred over the natural openings by this
Left ventricular assist device (LVAD) pumping has hemodynamic and anatomic influences on right ventricular performance. A total artificial heart (TAH) model was employed to better understand the hemodynamic influence of an LVAD on the failing right ventricle. Biventricular failure was simulated by reducing both ventricular drive pressures of the TAH. After
The major fissures of the right and left lungs were studied with standard computed tomography (CT) (10-mm-thick sections) and thin-section CT (2-mm-thick sections) in 50 patients. On standard CT scans, the major fissures were seen in 90%-100% of cases at each of three selected levels. They usually appeared as hypoattenuating bands
OBJECTIVE--To determine the advantages and disadvantages of a shift system of working compared with the conventional on call system for preregistration house officers. DESIGN--A shift system of working was employed in the unit from 1 August 1989 to 31 July 1990. During attachments of three or six months four house officers
A patient who underwent complete cerebral commissurotomy was tested before and after surgery on tasks involving drawing and recognition memory for visual hierarchical stimuli. These stimuli consisted of a large, higher-level form constructed from smaller, lower-level forms. Postoperatively, the patient was more accurate in drawing and recognizing higher-level forms relative to
A case is described of prolonged neuromuscular block in a patient who was given the muscle relaxant vecuronium followed by bolus injections of the antibiotics gentamycin and clindamycin.
During the first few weeks of life many preterm infants develop flattened heads. We have shown that this deformity can be reduced by nursing preterm infants on soft, air filled mattresses of the type used for detecting apnoea.
The National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) has reviewed its procedure for setting pass-fail standards in conjunction with the introduction of its comprehensive Part I and Part II examinations in 1991. This report gives background information on the procedures used for the past decade to set pass-fail standards for the Part
Falls are a major threat to the health of older persons. We evaluated potential risk factors for falls in 325 community-dwelling persons aged 60 years or older who had fallen during the previous year, then followed up weekly for 1 year to ascertain nonsyncopal falls and their consequences. Risk factors for
As their country tries to break away from the Soviet political system, Latvian nurses try to break away from a Soviet health care system that has relegated their profession to one completely dominated by physicians. Two Latvian-born American nurses provide a glimpse of the early stages of this struggle.
The result of the new plan, hopes Smeltzer, will be a dramatic reduction in the nursing shortage, at least at UCH. "We find this plan appeals to nurses on several levels," said Smeltzer. "First, it provides financial rewards, and those rewards affirm the Hospitals' commitment to treating nurses as highly valued
Cushing's syndrome due to the abuse of Betamethasone nasal drops has not been described before. This report presents such a case and emphasises the care which one must take in prescribing topical steroids.
Mycoplasma contamination is tough to detect and even more difficult to eradicate. It is best to start over fresh from clean cell stocks, but several elimination options are available.
Attending physicians should work with the interdisciplinary team to ensure that the nursing home staff plays a critical part in maintaining the visually impaired resident's function.
The spread of AIDS through heterosexual contact in Asia and Africa has reached truly epidemic proportions. The rest of the world should take notice while there is time.
This report reviews individual-related variables, environment-related variables and instrument-related variables, with a focus on the Evaporimeter EP1 (ServoMed). Start-up and use is described, and guidelines for good laboratory practice given.
Because of discontinuation of base hospital participation, paramedics in a large urban zone of a California emergency medical services (EMS) system serving 1.1 million persons went on emergency standing orders for nearly all calls requiring advanced life support. Subsequently, the base hospital resumed medical control function under limited standing orders. Standing
We present the findings in a patient who underwent pneumonectomy and developed a chronic bronchopleural fistula and empyema and who developed an intrathoracic aspergilloma after open-window thoracostomy. To our knowledge, formation of an aspergilloma in an open intrathoracic cavity has not been reported previously.
When a chronically ill elderly woman complained that she felt something was wrong, close attention and follow-up by physician and nursing home staff paid off.
Differentiating language changes between the normal aged and those in the early stages of dementia is never simple. Knowing the differences and what to expect can aid in making this diagnosis.
Information about healthcare "bargains" is easy to obtain. Physicians who take the time to familiarize themselves with costs in their hospitals and clinics can help reduce charges for tests and drugs and can avoid wasteful use of supplies and misuse of staff time that can lead to additional charges. Education is
The author presents the historical backdrop of the advent of the American Society of Head and Neck Surgery and the Society of Head and Neck Surgeons and their paths that began wide apart and which, over the years, have become closer, even intertwining with the formation of the Joint Council for
Residual stress in an organ is defined as the stress that remains when all external loads are removed. Residual stress has generally been ignored in published papers on left ventricular wall stress. To take residual stress into account in the analysis of stress distributions in a beating heart, one must first
A technique for passing interosseous wires is described. By using an intravenous cathether, it is possible to pass an interosseous wire through the drill hole without difficulty.
A series of body charts have been designed that are more representative of changing body proportion with increasing age. Being easier to use, these charts have led to a better estimate by the casualty doctor of the body surface area that has been burned.
A prospective study of 440 eyes of 220 patients following successful operations for primary rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (132 eyes) and prophylactic operations for retinal breaks (103 eyes) revealed an incidence of preretinal macular fibrosis (PRMF) of 47% after scleral buckling surgery and 42% after prophylactic laser or cryopexy. The incidence of
Cutting current is a valuable tool in the office surgical practice due to its speed, efficiency, and economy. Most electrosurgical generators produce a blended wave form that coagulates the tissue as it is cut. Care should be taken to see that the patient is adequately grounded with a dispersive electrode to
Bright light exposure has been found to alleviate the symptoms of recurrent winter depression in many patients. The mechanism of light therapy may involve shifts in the timing (phase) of circadian rhythms. In this study, morning light exposure (which shifts rhythms earlier) was compared with evening light exposure (which shifts rhythms
The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of heel lifts on ground reaction force patterns in subjects with structural leg-length discrepancies (LLDs). Eighteen subjects with LLDs ranging from 4.8 to 22.2 mm participated in this study. Subject age range was from 20 to 63 years. A force platform
All patient telephone calls to a two-physician private family practice were recorded for a 2-month period. There were 1264 calls, of which 539 were patient-initiated calls for specific medical problems. The 21 patients responsible for four or more of these 539 calls were labeled high utilizers. Chart comparisons were done for
The head nurse has become a critical link in managing successful hospital units in this post-DRG (Diagnosis Related Group) era. As more nursing services move to a decentralized model, the head nurse role has grown in complexity and accountability far beyond entry level nursing preparation. This study explores the patterns of
The authors review the principle of proportional myoelectric control, in which the motor voltage of a prosthetic hand varies in direct proportion to the EMG signal, giving the amputee control over speed and force of grip. This type of myoelectric control is contrasted with digital myoelectric control, in which the system
Many of the decisions in complex health care organizations are made by small work groups. Nurse administrators often lead or are highly involved in these groups, where reaching quality decisions is a critical goal. This paper examines research and information from the communications field, presenting a model for making decisions in
A simple, straight forward, almost mechanical method of drawing the hairline is presented. It is amazing to see how this method, when followed closely, consistently produces a natural, aesthetically pleasing result on all sizes and shapes of heads. It is recognized by the authors that there are a lot of individual
The exact measurement of femoral head cover is essential for an assessment of reduction of congenital dislocation of the hip. We have compared standard anteroposterior radiographs with computerised tomograms and thereby classified the shape of the acetabular roof into four types. We found that the CE angle of Wiberg is a
To allocate indirect fixed costs to the different units in an organization, fixed costs of a supporting service should be charged to the factor that creates the demand for the service (using the dual-rate-charging method) and overhead costs should be charged to the binding constraint of the organization.
Low levels of visible light directed onto slices of rat cerebral cortical tissue enhanced net potassium-induced release of the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) from these brain slices. At higher light intensity, net potassium-induced release was suppressed. These effects were apparently not from increased temperature. The amount of light enhancing this neurotransmitter
Paracetamol suppositories in two different bases were given to children who had fever after operations. Plasma concentrations and the effect on temperature were compared. There was a significant correlation between peak plasma concentrations and maximum drop in temperature. A lipophilic base produced better results than a hydrophilic base.
Lifting is a major source of back injuries because of the mechanical effects on the spinal structures. A number of methods are known by which a lifter can reduce the load on the spine during lifting. This study explores an additional method: rotation of the load before it is actually lifted
